.TH xrandr-align 1

.SH NAME
xrandr-align -- utility to keep the proper alignment between the
screen and an X input device

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrandr-align [OPTIONS] [FUNCTION] [FUNCTION-OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The xrandr-align is a utility to keep the proper alignment between the
screen and an X input device. The utility works in both ways. First, it
can dynamically align an input device (touchscreen) to correspond the
varying orientation of the screen. Second, it can dynamically align
the screen to correspond the varying spacial orientation of the
display (handheld device). In addition it can list available input
devices and screen outputs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B -v | --verbose
Turns on the verbose output mode.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP 8
.B version
Prints out the program version and the versions of XInput and XRandR
extensions available on the running X server. This function does not
require any additional options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B list-input [--short | --long] [\fIname-or-ID\fP]
If no argument is given lists all available input devices. If an
argument is given, shows all the features of the device with the given
\fIname or ID\fP.
If --long is provided, the output includes detailed information about
the capabilities of each devices. Otherwise, or if --short is
provided, only the device names and some minimal information is
listed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B list-output [--screen=\fIinteger\fP]
If no argument is given lists all available screen outputs. Optionally
the \fIscreen\fP number can be specified.
.PP
.TP 8
.B align [--input=\fIname-or-ID\fP] [--screen=\fIinteger\fP] [--output=\fIname-or-ID\fP]
The default function. It is called when no function name is given. It
queries the current screen configuration and applies the current
coordinate transformation to the input device. If no options are given
then the Core Pointer and the Primary Output (or the first available
output) is used in correspondence. The name or the ID of the input
device can be specified with the \fIinput\fP option. The name or ID of the
output can explicitly specified with the \fIoutput\fP option. For a
multiple screen configuration the output selection can be directed by
specifying the \fIscreen\fP number.
.PP
.TP 8
.B monitor [--input=\fIname-or-ID\fP] [--screen=\fIinteger\fP] [--output=\fIname-or-ID\fP]
Listens to the screen (CRTC, output) change events from RandR and
applies each coordinate transformation to the input device. If no
options are given then the Core Pointer and the Primary Output (or the
first available output) is used in correspondence. The name or the ID
of the input device can be specified with the \fIinput\fP option. The name or
ID of the output can explicitly specified with the \fIoutput\fP
option. For a multiple screen configuration the output selection can
be directed by specifying the \fIscreen\fP number.
.PP
.TP 8
.B gravitate [--input=\fIname-or-ID\fP] [--screen=\fIinteger\fP] [--ratio=\fIfloat\fP] [--threshold=\fIfloat\fP]
Listens to the events from the given input device which should be a
gravity sensor (accelerometer) and rotates the screen in accordance
with the varying spacial orientation of the device. The gravity sensor
data is analysed with the use of \fIratio\fP and \fIthreshold\fP
parameters. The first defines the minimum ratio between horizontal and
vertical pitch in order to select the prevalent one and equals 2.0 by
default. The second defines the minimal pitch value to consider in
relation to the axis value range and equals 0.12 by default.
The name or the ID of the input device should be specified with the
\fIinput\fP option. Optionally the \fIscreen\fP number can be specified.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The program uses the \fBDISPLAY\fP environment variable specifying the
X display to connect.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xinput(1), xrandr(1)

.SH LICENSE
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is  hereby granted without fee,
provided that the  above copyright   notice appear  in   all  copies
and  that both  that copyright  notice   and   this  permission
notice  appear  in  supporting documentation, and that   the  name of
the authors  not  be  used  in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific,  written prior
permission. The authors  make  no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL   WARRANTIES WITH REGARD  TO  THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND   FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT  SHALL THE AUTHORS  BE   LIABLE   FOR ANY  SPECIAL,
INDIRECT   OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA  OR PROFITS, WHETHER  IN  AN ACTION
OF  CONTRACT,  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS  ACTION, ARISING    OUT OF
OR   IN  CONNECTION  WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2012, Paul Wolneykien, ALT Linux Ltd.
.PP
Original \fBxinput\fP utility:
.nf
Copyright 1996,1997, Frederic Lepied.
Copyright 2008, Philip Langdale.
.PP
Original \fBxrandr\fP utility:
.nf
Copyright 2001 Keith Packard.

.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Paul Wolneykien <manowar@altlinux.org>
Philip Langdale, <philipl@alumni.utexas.net>
Frederic Lepied, France <Frederic.Lepied@sugix.frmug.org>
Peter Hutterer <peter.hutterer@who-t.net>
Julien Cristau <jcristau@debian.org>
Thomas Jaeger <ThJaeger@gmail.com>
Keith Packard, Open Source Technology Center, Intel Corporation
Jim Gettys, Cambridge Research Laboratory, HP Labs, HP
and more.
.fi
