.TH xrandr-align-gravitate 1

.SH NAME
xrandr-align-gravitate -- script to start/stop the screen autorotation

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrandr-align-gravitate [ --start | --stop ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The xrandr-align-gravitate is a script to start/stop the screen
autorotation following the rotations of the device registered by a
gravisensor.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B --start
The default option. Starts screen autorotation process listening for
events from each input device listed in the configuration file
\fI~/.xrandr-align/gravitate\fP or \fI/etc/xrandr-align/gravitate\fP
if the former doesn't exist.

The configuration file entries are formatted as follows:

.nf
"\fIinput device name\fP" [\fIratio\fP,\fIthreshold\fP]
.fi

The \fIratio\fP and \fIthreshold\fP values are optional but useful to
adjust autorotation for a particular gravisensor.
.PP
.TP 8
.B --stop
Stops one or more previously started processes.

.SH FILES
~/.xrandr-align/gravitate, /etc/xrandr-align/gravitate

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xrandr-align(1), xrandr-align-monitor(1)

.SH LICENSE
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is  hereby granted without fee,
provided that the  above copyright   notice appear  in   all  copies
and  that both  that copyright  notice   and   this  permission
notice  appear  in  supporting documentation, and that   the  name of
the authors  not  be  used  in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific,  written prior
permission. The authors  make  no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL   WARRANTIES WITH REGARD  TO  THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND   FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT  SHALL THE AUTHORS  BE   LIABLE   FOR ANY  SPECIAL,
INDIRECT   OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA  OR PROFITS, WHETHER  IN  AN ACTION
OF  CONTRACT,  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS  ACTION, ARISING    OUT OF
OR   IN  CONNECTION  WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2012, Paul Wolneykien, ALT Linux Ltd.

.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Paul Wolneykien <manowar@altlinux.org>
.fi
