.TH xrandr-align-monitor 1

.SH NAME
xrandr-align-monitor -- script to start/stop the alignment of
configured inputs with xrandr-align

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrandr-align-monitor [ --start | --stop ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The xrandr-align-monitor is a script to start/stop the alignment of
configured inputs with xrandr-align utility.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B --start
The default option. Starts monitoring for output-input pairs listed in
the configuration file \fI~/.xrandr-align/monitor\fP or
\fI/etc/xrandr-align/monitor\fP if the former doesn't exist.

The configuration file entries are formatted as follows:

.nf
"\fIoutput name\fP" "\fIinput device name\fP" [pre: \fIpre-script\fP] [post: \fIpost-script\fP]
.fi

The parameters for pre- and post- scripts are optional. By default the \fIpre-align.sh\fP and \fIpost-align.sh\fP files in the configuration directory are used. These scripts run the set of another scripts residing in the \fIpre-align.d\fP and \fIpost-align.d\fP correspondingly.
.PP
.TP 8
.B --stop
Stops one or more previously started monitoring processes.

.SH FILES
~/.xrandr-align/monitor, /etc/xrandr-align/monitor

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xrandr-align(1), xrandr-align-gravitate(1)

.SH LICENSE
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is  hereby granted without fee,
provided that the  above copyright   notice appear  in   all  copies
and  that both  that copyright  notice   and   this  permission
notice  appear  in  supporting documentation, and that   the  name of
the authors  not  be  used  in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific,  written prior
permission. The authors  make  no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

THE AUTHORS DISCLAIM ALL   WARRANTIES WITH REGARD  TO  THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY  AND   FITNESS,
IN NO EVENT  SHALL THE AUTHORS  BE   LIABLE   FOR ANY  SPECIAL,
INDIRECT   OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA  OR PROFITS, WHETHER  IN  AN ACTION
OF  CONTRACT,  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS  ACTION, ARISING    OUT OF
OR   IN  CONNECTION  WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2012, Paul Wolneykien, ALT Linux Ltd.

.SH AUTHORS

.nf
Paul Wolneykien <manowar@altlinux.org>
.fi
